The goal of this project is to build a classification model that can classify 10 different car models.
Approximately 15,500 images of vehicles  were initially provided for training this model.
Images of 10 car models are distributed equally in the model folders. Final model testing
was done on completely separate image folder,  the number of testing images is 6675.

The base model for the project is built on Xception model. After training it was providing 92% 
prediction accuracy for car model classification. The goal was  to improve this result.

I started with image observation. I found some images were very narrow, very dark, some photos of the interior of the car 
instead of exterior. Some of these pictures I deleted or edited some, especially if the photo contained several cars from 
different class I had to classify. Then I decided to add  11,000 more photos for training. Images were taken from the Internet 
car market. For augmentation I used the albumentations library. This library gives more opportunities for augmentation of pictures.

I continued to experiment with the Xception network. I began the experimenting with optimizer and learning rate selection.
After number of experiments I selected Adam as optimimizer and 0.0001 as learning rate. I experimented with a method that
helps to find a good learning rate range. The method is training the model on a changing learning rate, then graph the loss 
vs learning rate and select ranges with highest slope. I tried to train model with cyclic learning rate, but I didn't like
the results.

Then I experimented with layers. In the beginning I retrained all layers of Xception net. Then I decided not to train some
layers. Especially first layers because they containe basic features for image recognition. The best result for my task I got
by not training first 4 layers of Xception net. I deleted Xception's top and experiments with building the top for my problem.
After some number of trials I selected 512 Dense layer with regularization l2, activation relu, drop out rate 0.5 and another 
dense layer with 10 neurons and activation softmax.


I tuned couple of Adam's parameters and beta_1 parameter with 0.87 value was getting me better result. I trained my model based on 
Xception for 10 epoches with image size 224 by 224. Additionaly after 10 epoches, I trained model for 2 epoches with image size
280 by 280. The final result for this model was around 96.4 percent accuracy. After that I decided to build another model
based on different image net.





